I think all of us have had very interesting experiences with young ones, and we could
go on quite a while speaking about them.
But there is a story about a child psychologist who began his practice with four theories
and no children.
Some years later, he found that he had four children and no theories.
He learned that there was quite a bit to do, it was a lot to do, to raise a child.
It was far more than just a few theories.
And this was a comment that was reported by psychologist Bruce Neromore and published
in the awake of April the 8th, 1981.
So theories about child raising come and go.
And the best counsel on raising a child, of course, is found in the Bible.
We know that because it's been there for thousands of years and it's consistent, it's
consistently successful.
There's another interesting point that there is four times as much counsel given to children
in the book of Proverbs as given to adults.
That might surprise you, but that's what I read, so I believe it.
Verse 226 is a familiar scripture for all of us, Proverbs 226.
And here it says, train a boy in the way he should go.
Even when he grows old, he will not depart from it.
Is that true?
Yes, it's true.
It doesn't mean that in every case, a boy that's well trained by his parents won't depart
from it.
No, does not mean that.
It's giving a general overall view of what will take place if a child is trained properly
by his parents.
And what it is, this is an interesting brief statement, excuse me, from the watchtower
of 2008 April 1st.
If a child is trained according to the Bible's counsel, the parent or parents are creating
the most favorable circumstances to bring about a marvelous result.
That marvelous result is a faithful servant of Jehovah God.
And we can turn to Proverbs 23-24, where reference is made to that, Proverbs 23-24, and how many
parents are so delighted with their children, especially in the case of so many who are
serving at Bethel.
There at Proverbs 23-24, it says, the Father of a righteous one will surely be joyful.
The Father's a wise son will rejoice in him, and it does.
It brings great pleasure to parents when that happens.
But there's another side to the coin.
Despite the most earnest efforts of parents, some children do become unfaithful.
Think about Solomon.
He wasn't a child, but it actually, it's very difficult to understand how that man turned
away from Jehovah in his old age, but he did.
And then even Jehovah had sons who proved unfaithful.
That's what the June 1st, 2007 watchtower, showed clearly and were all familiar with it,
the angels who turned away from their father, their creator, and it's something to keep
in mind for parents, particularly, who have really tried hard to raise their children properly.
We don't want to see them beat themselves, figuratively speaking, on and on for years
in years because they feel like they're failures.
They should not do that.
How do you account if it seems to some parents that know somehow they fail, but then how
do you account for children who receive no help whatsoever from their parents?
And they loved Jehovah and they come into the truth.
It's heart, heart condition.
So parents would be wise to focus on the future and what they can do, not to look back and
beat themselves over problems of the past.
And even when children do turn aside from serving Jehovah, parents who have conscientiously
trained their children in the way to walk, they can still entertain the hope that those
young ones will come back someday.
We never give up on our kids.
We don't give up on our close friends or siblings who may have walked away from the truth.
We always hope that they'll come back.
Psalm 19.7 is interesting.
Psalm 19.7, speaking of the reminders of Jehovah, if there it reads, the law of Jehovah
is perfect, restoring strength.
And then it says, the reminder of Jehovah is trustworthy, making the inexperienced one
wise.
Are those who leave the truth?
Many times it's reminders that come back to them the way it was at home, the counsel
they receive from their parents, the loving congregation that they attended.
And who comes to mind when you think about the reminders coming to mind after living
a life of debauchery, the prodigal son?
He was at His lowest.
And then who did He remember?
His father, his father who undoubtedly had shown kindness and love to him.
So we don't want to overlook the power there is in parental training.
Even though they may not respond, children may not respond immediately.
They do many times later on.
And they go through experiences in life sometimes that wakes them up to the facts of life and reality.
The truth is there are thousands upon thousands of children of Jehovah's Witnesses who are
being raised in the truth and whose way is pure and right.
It really is thrilling to see young ones who they're able to think.
They don't just parrot what their parents tell them, they're not just memorizing things.
They've learned to have thinking ability and they can speak about the truth.
They defend the truth in a very interesting way.
In Britain, Tim and Sam, both 11 years old and unbaptized publishers were engaging
in field service with Tim's mother.
The boys needed new bags to carry their Bibles in literature, but money was a problem.
Earlier, before starting in the field service that day, the mothers of the two publishers
made this a subject of prayer.
At the last house to be visited that morning, Tim spoke to the householder and read a Bible
verse to her.
She interrupted him to ask what his religion was.
When Tim replied that he was one of Jehovah's Witnesses, the woman scolded him and said
to his mother that she could not understand why Jehovah's Witnesses let their children
die rather than allow them to accept blood transfusions.
That would be a difficult thing to have thrown in your face, a young man there at the
door with his mother.
Tim's mother suggested that the woman asked the boys how they felt about this.
She did.
Tim explained that he would always choose alternative treatment rather than go against his Bible-trained
conscience.
This was from this young boy himself.
Sam then said, the other young boy, that his own sister had received alternative treatment
and had fared better than patients who had received blood.
Then the householder again turned to Tim's mother, and this time she expressed disapproval
of taking young children from door to door.
I've heard that many times, I'm sure.
Both of the boys responded to the woman on this occasion that they enjoyed preaching,
adding that they preferred this to roaming the streets like others of their age.
Well, this slowed the householder down a bit.
She was impressed by their reply.
The householder asked the boys to wait a moment while she went into her house.
What a surprise they had when she returned and presented each of them with a smart new
leather bag ideal for their ministry.
She sold these items for a living.
Her changed attitude also allowed the boys to arrange for a return visit.
And as they were leaving, the householder's 94-year-old mother who had been listening came
to the door and asked Tim's mother to visit her at her home.
Truly we are proud of our young ones.
And it's a delight when you hear them make comments at the meetings in their own words.
And you out in the field ministry with them and you see them make expressions of faith.
We have thousands of good children who really are showing that their mature and they love
Jehovah God.